## Automated ELK Stack Deployment

The files in this repository were used to configure the network depicted below.

/Users/gez/Documents/GitHub/https-github.com-Gerrymelb-mycyberfolio/mycyberprojects/Images



These files have been tested and used to generate a live ELK deployment on Azure. They can be used to either recreate the entire deployment pictured above. Alternatively, select portions of the Yaml files may be used to install only certain pieces of it, such as Filebeat.

  /Users/gez/Documents/GitHub/https-github.com-Gerrymelb-mycyberfolio/mycyberprojects/Yaml files/filebeat-config.yml.rtf

This document contains the following details:
- Description of the Topology
- Access Policies
- ELK Configuration
  - Beats in Use
  - Machines Being Monitored
- How to Use the Ansible Build


### Description of the Topology

The main purpose of this network is to expose a load-balanced and monitored instance of DVWA, the Damn Vulnerable Web Application.

Load balancing ensures that the application will be highly stable and secure , in addition to restricting access to the network.
Concerning the security aspect that load balancers protect, this would be availability via redundancy. 
The advantages of a jump box is a secured locked down enivronment for loggin into and the ability to be the base for mass configuration and deployment over the network.

Integrating an ELK server allows users to easily monitor the vulnerable VMs for changes to the file system and system and system metrics such as CPU usage, logins and more.


Filebeat watches and monitors the log or locations that users specify. It also collects log events, and forward forwards them either to Elasticsearch or Logstash for indexing. 
Filebeat watches for log files.

Metricbeat takes  the metrics and statistics that it collects and ships them to the output that you specify, such as Elasticsearch or Logstash. It helps you monitor your servers by recording metrics from the system and services running on the server. Metricbeat records  processes from your operating system. 


The configuration details of each machine may be found below.




| Name     | Function   | IP Address | Operating System |
|----------|------------|------------|------------------|
| Jumpbox  | Gateway    | 10.0.0.5   | Linux            |
| Web-1    | DVWA       | 10.0.0.7   | Linux            |
| Web2     | container  | 10.0.0.8   | Linux            |
| ProjVM   | ELK server | 10.3.0.4   | Linux            |

### Access Policies
 

The machines on the internal network are not exposed to the public Internet. 

Only the (jump box machine) can accept connections from the Internet. Access to this machine is only allowed from the following IP addresses: 
- _ whitelisted IP addresses
10.0.0.7
10.0.0.8
10.3.0.4

Machines within the network can only be accessed by (ssh'ing into them).

(The jump box was allowed to access the Elk VM, ip address 10.3.0.4)

A summary of the access policies in place can be found in the table below.

| Name     | Publicly Accessible | Allowed IP Addresses |
|----------|---------------------|----------------------|
| Jump Box | Yes                 | 10.3.0.4             |
| ProjvM   | Yes                 |  10.0.0.5            |
| Web-1    | No                  |  10.0.0.5 10.3.0.4   |
|    Web2  | No                  |  10.0.0.5 10.3.0.4   |



### Elk Configuration

Ansible was used to automate configuration of the ELK machine. No configuration was performed manually, which is advantageous because...
The main advantage is it's one click simplicity, as in you only have to run the shell once and everything is setup.

The playbook implements the following tasks:

- Install Docker
- Download Image
- Copy eg: Copy filbeat.yml
- Command 
- Pip , to install python3
- Increases it's virtual memory
- downloads and launces a docker Elk container

The following screenshot displays the result of running `docker ps` after successfully configuring the ELK instance.

 sudo docker ps -a
  /Users/gez/Documents/GitHub/https-github.com-Gerrymelb-mycyberfolio/mycyberprojects/Images/elk instance.png

### Target Machines & Beats
This ELK server is configured to monitor the following machines:
 
(10.0.0.7  10.0.0.8)

We have installed the following Beats on these machines:
- Filebeat and Metricbeat

These Beats allow us to collect the following information from each machine:
- _TODO: In 1-2 sentences, explain what kind of data each beat collects, and provide 1 example of what you expect to see. E.g., `Winlogbeat` collects Windows logs, which we use to track user logon events, etc._

Filebeat  helps generate and organize log files to send to Logstash and Elasticsearch. Specifically, it logs information about the file system, including which files have changed and when.
Filebeat is often used to collect log files from very specific files, such as those generated by Apache, Microsoft Azure tools, the Nginx web server, and MySQL databases.



Metricbeat collect machine metrics, such as uptime measuring how long a machine has been on or  cpu usage where alerts are triggered when CPU usage gets too high


### Using the Playbook
In order to use the playbook, you will need to have an Ansible control node already configured. Assuming you have such a control node provisioned: 

SSH into the control node and follow the steps below:
- Copy the ansible playbook file to /etc/ansible/files directory.
- Update the HOSTS file to include the ELK server IP address.
- Run the playbook, and navigate to http://40.76.129.141:5601/app/kibana to check that the installation worked as expected.

_TODO: Answer the following questions to fill in the blanks:_
- _Which file is the playbook? Where do you copy it?_
- _Which file do you update to make Ansible run the playbook on a specific machine? How do I specify which machine to install the ELK server on versus which to install Filebeat on?_
- _Which URL do you navigate to in order to check that the ELK server is running?

_As a **Bonus**, provide the specific commands the user will need to run to download the playbook, update the files, etc._

ansible-playbook filebeat-config.yml
ansible-playbook pentest.yml
ansible-playbook install-elk.yml
ansible-playbook metricbeat-config.yml 
